Welcome back to this lecture on basic operations of Sparke data frames.
In this lecture we're mainly going to be discussing how you can filter out data.
Once you grab it let's jump to the Jupiter note book and get started.
I've started a new notebook at Spark data from basic operations and the first thing you need to do is
within in your notebook is import a spark session from PI spark thought sequel and let's create a new
spark session.
We'll get lots of practice with this.
But what's nice is you can use tab to quickly autocomplete a lot of this stuff.
So we say build that app name and then we'll just call this ops and then say get or create and then
what I will say is the physical to spark thought.
Read that cxxviii and I will be reading is the Apple stock that V which comes with the notes.
And when we're reading that C S V files we have the option to infer schema.
You don't actually have that option with some files but you do have it here with CSP.
So I want to say in first Kema is true and I also want to say header's true header just means that that
very first row in the C S V file are actually the column names.
So when I run this may take a little bit of time and then we'll say print schema and here I can see
I have a date column in open high low close volume and adjust it close.
So this all stock information and if we want to see what the actual data frame looks like I'm a little
zoomed in here so it's going to look a little weird as far as the formatting but basically we have some
sort of date value.
The open price for this Apple stock the high price the low price the closing price the volume traded.
Meaning how many units of stock were traded and the adjusted close price adjusted close price just takes
into account things like stock splits.
So if I want to get kind of a better view of this I can just ask for like the first three rows and then
have these row objects.
Maybe I just grabbed the first one and I can see I have a date time object some opening price high price
low.
I can see that volume is some integer which makes sense and then adjust it close.
All right.
Now discuss how to actually filter data.
A large part of working of data frames is the ability to quickly filter out data based on conditions
Sparke data frames are built on top of that SPARC sequel platform which means as we previously discussed
if you already know sequel you could quickly and easily grab that data using sequel commands.
However we're really going to be using that data frame methods.
Our focus for the course.
But let me show you quickly what it looks like using sequel.
Imagine that I have my data frame and I want to grab all the data had a closing price less than $500.
I say philtre and then I can actually passen direct sequel syntax meaning I can pass in the column name
which is close less than 500 and then say that show and this will actually return everything has a closing
price of less than 500.
Now that's how we can use the actual DFT filter with sequel syntax and we can combine this with something
like selects to select just some columns off of this so I want to select Open and then show the results
here.
So now this is showing the opening price for every single row with the closing price less than $500.
And if I wanted to show multiple columns that I again just pass and a list of columns s.c open and close
pass and a list run that and I see open and close.
Now this is a lot of what we're going to be doing but really we're going to be using normal Python comparison
operators.
Again this looks really similar to Seacole operators except that you need to make sure you're calling
the entire column within the data frame using that format of the bracket notation and then the column
name inside of that let's show you some examples of this.
So I'm going to hash tag this out as a comment and then so we can directly compare this.
This is the way we're really going to be doing stuff in this course will say DFT filter.
Same sort of command except I'm going to pass in the entire column of close using bracket notation and
then use Python's own comparison operator.
Note that syntax highlighting.
And then let's put in some number like 500 and then I'll say that show.
And then here we can see the various columns and I can do everything that I did previously.
So I could just select certain columns for this.
Maybe I want to select the volume column.
So I do that and then I show the results there.
And there we see the volume.
So we're doing a lot of stuff all in one line.
The key things to keep in mind here is that I am using dot filter and then passing in the column some
comparison operator and then the value.
Let's walk through an example of filtering based on multiple conditions.
Imagine that I want to grab all the rows that have a closing price less than hundred dollars and an
open price greater than $200.
I'm going to walk you through to really common mistakes and then show you how to fix them.
So you might be doing this and thinking well I'll just use the and operator.
So I'll say DSF close and say less than two hundred and you might think I'll just use and the open greater
than 200 and show the results Unfortunately this won't work.
So if we run this we get a value error and we can scroll down here and it says cannot convert column
into boolean.
Please use this ampersand for and a pipe operator for or and the tilde symbol for it.
So let's go ahead and change that.
So when we're doing multiple conditions we have to use either a pipe operator for or or this sort of
single ampersand.
Now if I run this by itself I'll still get an error.
Now this is a little harder to fix.
Usually it's a really long pipe for Jey error.
It's kind of Python for Java and you scroll down here it says some sort of error exception occurred
and you know it doesn't really tell you what actually happened here.
This one is a little harder to work back.
Now the reason this is happening is because we need a distinctly separate the two conditions.
All you have to do to fix this is make sure to pass these two conditions within parentheses themselves.
So he passed these in parentheses.
Make sure your print sees actually balance out here.
You can see the syntax highlighting kind of helping us there.
And I want to run this I actually see the results I was looking for.
Again remember that we you're using ampersand or pipe operators you have both conditions separated in
their own little spaces with parentheses.
And to build on top of this example maybe a wanted everywhere where the close was less than two hundred
and not open greater than two hundred.
I could just add a little tildes symbol there and that creates the not operator.
In other languages this is sometimes an exclamation point.
So I run this and then I get essentially where the dbf close was less than two hundred and the open
was not greater than 200.
Using that little tilt symbol.
So just another example they're free to check out.
Whoops let's comment that one out.
And now let's work on to another example.
So just kind of walking through some typical use cases here.
Let's say I wanted to grab a very specific row instance.
So one of my colleagues says hey what date was the low price $197 and 16 cents.
I say No problem I'll pass in my low column.
I'll check for equality with whatever number.
My colleagues said in this case let's say they said one in seven point one six.
Obviously I already know the data.
So I know there's an entry here so I'll say that show.
And there it is.
So now I can check out some day.
Open High Low close etc..
Now it's not so great about this particular result since I said that show it just kind of prints out
this weird output.
And right now since I'm a little zoom then it doesn't really look well aligned.
So I could zoom out a little more run this again.
And now I see kind of a nicer result.
But that still doesn't really help me because it's just printing out the result.
I don't actually have the data to play around with or mess with.
So zoom back in and show you what we can do here to fix that.
So coming back here instead of saying that show I'm going to use duck collect and if I say not collect
then I get back a list with an actual row object which means I can then save this as a result.
And when you're working in the real world of data a lot of times you're going to want to collect stuff
so you can actually work with that variable later on.
Often in this course we'll just be using We'll just be using that show.
So you can actually see stuff but we don't really need to collect it.
But in real life you'll probably be collecting more often than showing.
So here's not my result.
It's that list of a single row item.
And then I can actually do stuff with this result.
So maybe I want to grab for instance I say 0 here and that's the first item in that list row.
So note the difference here between results zero and result without it.
Let me just type result down here.
So here with just results I have a list of a singular item.
Result zero is that first item there.
So just a little heads up they have to do this where it's index call and then after this I can then
do whatever I want.
So Rose let's actually assign this rose equal to result 2 zero.
They can actually be turned into dictionaries.
They actually have a lot of methods available to them.
So you can say count an index as dictionary is actually really useful.
So if I say as dictionary Well then I can just say OK give me the address that close or the date etc..
So for example I can say OK get me that volume traded out that day.
So volume and there it is.
That's the volume.
So that's kind of your work process.
More realistically shown you'll have some sort of collection or some sort of filter command where your
filter commands are just using Python comparison operators and then these ampersands or pipe operators
for logical comparisons or adding in multiple conditions statements.
Remember your results it returns a list of row objects.
So you have to actually index to grab a particular object and then offer that if you want it to.
You can just say as dictionary and very easily grab the keys from the dictionary.
OK that was pretty useful.
This is kind of a more realistic application of what you would be doing with SPARC.
And we're going to be seeing this sort of thing later on throughout the course.
Thanks and I'll see you at the next lecture.